.TH NICOTINE-IMPORT-WINCONFIG 1 "October 2006" "Version 1.2.6"

.SH NAME
.B nicotine-import-winconfig
is a script to convert SoulSeek Windows client configuration file to the Nicotine format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nicotine-import-winconfig
[options] <path_to_the_windows_soulseek_files>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI nicotine-import-winconfig
will read the SoulSeek Windows client configuration file and will extract information like download queue, userlist, login information, list of autojoined chatrooms, list of banned users, user info/picture, and write them to $HOME/.nicotine/config, which is the default nicotine configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
If you don't want to import the whole configuration, you may consider using the command line flags below.
.TP
.I -q, --queue
Import the download queue.
.TP
.I -u, --userlist
Import the userlist.
.TP
.I -l, --login
Import the login information.
.TP
.I -C, --chatrooms
Import the list of autojoined chatrooms.
.TP
.I -b, --banned
Import the list of banned users.
.TP
.I -i, --userinfo
Import the userinfo and picture.
.TP
.I -h, --help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.I -c <file>, --config=<file>
Use <file> as Nicotine configuration file. If <file> do not exists a new empty configuration file will be created.
.SH EXAMPLES
Import the SoulSeek Windows client configuration from /mnt/windows into the default nicotine configuration file :
.PP
Nicotine should be shut down before doing this.
.PP
.B
nicotine-import-winconfig
"/mnt/windows/Program Files/SoulSeek"
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Adam Cecile <gandalf@le-vert.net> for the Nicotine+ project.
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B nicotine(1)
