.\"
.TH "NICOTINE+" "1" "August 2016" "Version 1.2.16" ""
.SH "NAME"
.B Nicotine+
is a graphical client for the SoulSeek peer\-to\-peer network.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B nicotine
[options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.BI Nicotine+
is a GTK\-based client for the SoulSeek peer\-to\-peer network written in Python.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-c " <file>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-config=" <file>
Use <file> as configuration file. If <file> does not exists a new empty configuration file will be created.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\^\-enable\-trayicon
Enable the tray icon.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\^\-disable\-trayicon
Disable the tray icon.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\^\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\^\-enable\-rgba
Enable RGBA mode, for full program transparency.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\^\-disable\-rgba
Disable RGBA mode, default mode.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\^\-hidden
Start the program hidden so only the tray icon is shown.
.TP
.BI \-b " <ip>" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-bindip=" <ip>
Bind sockets to the given <ip> (useful for VPN).
.TP
.B \-v, \-\^\-version
Show version number and exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Normally the exit status of the program will be 0.
.br
If required dependencies are not present it returns 1.
.br
If the given list of arguments cannot be parsed it returns 2.
.SH "FILES"
All personal files are stored in the folder ~/.nicotine/
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was initially written by Adam Cecile <gandalf@le\-vert.net> for the Nicotine+ project.
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
