README.md, before:

# Nicotine+

<img src="pynicotine/gtkgui/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps/org.nicotine_plus.Nicotine.svg" align="right" width="128" style="margin: 0 10px">

Nicotine+ is a graphical client for the [Soulseek](https://www.slsknet.org/news/) peer-to-peer network.

Nicotine+ aims to be a pleasant, free and open source (FOSS) alternative to the official Soulseek client, providing additional functionality while keeping current with the Soulseek protocol.

Nicotine+ uses GTK for its graphical user interface, and is written in Python.

Check out the [screenshots](data/screenshots/SCREENSHOTS.md) and [source code](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus).
<br clear="right">

# Download Nicotine+

The current stable version of Nicotine+ is 3.1.1, released on August 2, 2021. See the [release notes](NEWS.md).

## GNU/Linux, *BSD, Solaris

If you have no need to modify the Nicotine+ source, you are strongly recommended to use packages for your distribution/operating system. This will save you time.

### Ubuntu/Debian (Stable)

To use [stable packages](https://launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+archive/ubuntu/stable) on Ubuntu and Debian, add the stable Nicotine+ apt repository (PPA) by running the following:

```sh
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nicotine-team/stable
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 6CEB6050A30E5769
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nicotine
```

If you prefer to install a .deb package directly, you can download one [here](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nicotine-team/stable/ubuntu/pool/main/n/nicotine/). Unlike the repository installation method, Nicotine+ will not update automatically; you need to download a .deb package each time a new release is available.

### Ubuntu/Debian (Unstable)

The project builds [daily unstable snapshots](https://code.launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+recipe/nicotine+-daily) in a separate [unstable PPA](https://code.launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+archive/ubuntu/unstable). To use it, run the following:

```sh
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nicotine-team/unstable
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 6CEB6050A30E5769
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nicotine
```

If you prefer to install a .deb package directly, you can download one [here](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nicotine-team/unstable/ubuntu/pool/main/n/nicotine/). Unlike the repository installation method, Nicotine+ will not update automatically; you need to download a .deb package each time a new release is available.

### Arch Linux/Manjaro/Parabola (Stable)

Nicotine+ is available in the community repository of Arch Linux, Manjaro and Parabola. To install, run the following:

```sh
sudo pacman -S nicotine+
```

### Void Linux (Stable)

To install Nicotine+ on Void Linux, run the following:

```sh
sudo xbps-install -S nicotine+
```

### Fedora (Stable)

To install Nicotine+ on Fedora, run the following:

```sh
sudo dnf install nicotine+
```

### Other Distributions

If Nicotine+ has not been packaged for your distribution/operating system yet, there are other recommended ways of installing Nicotine+.

#### pip (Stable)

Nicotine+ can be installed using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/). Ensure the [runtime dependencies](doc/DEPENDENCIES.md) are installed, and run the following:

```sh
pip3 install nicotine-plus
```

Keep in mind that Nicotine+ will not update automatically. When a new release is available, run the following:

```sh
pip3 install nicotine-plus --upgrade
```

#### Flatpak (Stable)

If your distribution supports Flatpak, you can install Nicotine+ from Flathub.

- [Download Nicotine+ on Flathub](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.nicotine_plus.Nicotine)

#### Flatpak (Unstable)

Unstable Flatpak packages are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [Download Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/flatpak-package.zip)

## Windows

### Stable

Stable Windows installers for Nicotine+ are available for download. Installing Nicotine+ requires administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-installer.zip.sha256)]
- [32-bit Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-installer.zip.sha256)]

Portable packages are also available. They can be run from your home directory, and do not require installation or administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Portable Package](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-package.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-package.zip.sha256)]
- [32-bit Portable Package](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-package.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-package.zip.sha256)]

### Unstable

Unstable Windows packages are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [64-bit Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-x86_64-installer.zip)
- [32-bit Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-i686-installer.zip)

Portable packages are also available. They can be run from your home directory, and do not require installation or administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Portable Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-x86_64-package.zip)
- [32-bit Portable Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-i686-package.zip)

### Chocolatey (Stable)

Nicotine+ can be installed using [Chocolatey](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/nicotine-plus). Run the following:

```sh
choco install nicotine-plus
```

## macOS

### Stable (Catalina/10.15 and newer)

A stable macOS installer for Nicotine+ is available on macOS version 10.15 (Catalina) and newer.

- [Download Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/macos-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/macos-installer.zip.sha256)]

### Stable (Mojave/10.14)

On macOS version 10.14 (Mojave), the recommended approach is to install Nicotine+ using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).

Once Homebrew is set up, run the following:

```sh
brew install nicotine-plus
```

### Unstable (Catalina/10.15 or newer)

Unstable macOS installers are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [Download Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/macos-installer.zip)

## Building from git (Unstable)

For more experienced users and developers who want to test the latest and greatest changes in Nicotine+, building from git is described in [RUNFROMGIT.md](doc/RUNFROMGIT.md). Also read the next section about getting involved.

# Getting Involved

If you would like to contribute to Nicotine+, you have a couple of options to get started:

* If you find a problem or have a feature request you can
  * discuss your findings in the [#nicotine+ IRC channel](https://web.libera.chat/?channel=#nicotine+) on [Libera.Chat](https://libera.chat/),
  * [create a new issue](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/issues) on GitHub, 
  * or post to the project [mailing list](mailto:nicotine-team@lists.launchpad.net).
* If you would like to translate Nicotine+ into another language, see [TRANSLATIONS.md](doc/TRANSLATIONS.md).
* If you would like to package Nicotine+ for a distribution or operating system, see [DEPENDENCIES.md](doc/DEPENDENCIES.md) for a list of dependencies.
* Code contributors, developers and maintainers should read [DEVELOPING.md](doc/DEVELOPING.md) for important information about various aspects of Nicotine+ development.
* For a list of contributors to Nicotine+ and its predecessors, see [AUTHORS.md](AUTHORS.md).
* For unofficial documentation of the Soulseek protocol, see [SLSKPROTOCOL.md](doc/SLSKPROTOCOL.md).
* For a current list of things to do, see the [issue tracker](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/issues).

# Where did the name Nicotine come from?

> I was in a geeky mood and was browsing [http://www.bash.org](http://www.bash.org)'s QDB.  
I stumbled across this quote:  
>> **\<etc>** so tempting to release a product called 'nicotine' and wait for the patches.  
>> **\<etc>** then i would have a reason to only apply one patch a day. otherwise, i'm going against medical advise.  
>
> So I thought what the hell and bluntly stole etc's idea.  

<p align="right">Hyriand, <i>founder of the Nicotine project</i>, 2003</p>

# Legal and Privacy

- By using Nicotine+, you agree to abide by the Soulseek [rules](https://www.slsknet.org/news/node/681) and [terms of service](https://www.slsknet.org/news/node/682), as long as you are using the official Soulseek server.
- While Nicotine+ does not collect any user data, the official Soulseek server or a user-configured third-party server may potentially do so.

# License

Nicotine+ is released under the terms of the [GNU Public License v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html) or later.

Commit message:

Added Slackware instruction to install Nicotine+
Please note I'm not the author of the Nicotine+ SlackBuild.

README.md, after:

# Nicotine+

<img src="pynicotine/gtkgui/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps/org.nicotine_plus.Nicotine.svg" align="right" width="128" style="margin: 0 10px">

Nicotine+ is a graphical client for the [Soulseek](https://www.slsknet.org/news/) peer-to-peer network.

Nicotine+ aims to be a pleasant, free and open source (FOSS) alternative to the official Soulseek client, providing additional functionality while keeping current with the Soulseek protocol.

Nicotine+ uses GTK for its graphical user interface, and is written in Python.

Check out the [screenshots](data/screenshots/SCREENSHOTS.md) and [source code](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus).
<br clear="right">

# Download Nicotine+

The current stable version of Nicotine+ is 3.1.1, released on August 2, 2021. See the [release notes](NEWS.md).

## GNU/Linux, *BSD, Solaris

If you have no need to modify the Nicotine+ source, you are strongly recommended to use packages for your distribution/operating system. This will save you time.

### Ubuntu/Debian (Stable)

To use [stable packages](https://launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+archive/ubuntu/stable) on Ubuntu and Debian, add the stable Nicotine+ apt repository (PPA) by running the following:

```sh
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nicotine-team/stable
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 6CEB6050A30E5769
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nicotine
```

If you prefer to install a .deb package directly, you can download one [here](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nicotine-team/stable/ubuntu/pool/main/n/nicotine/). Unlike the repository installation method, Nicotine+ will not update automatically; you need to download a .deb package each time a new release is available.

### Ubuntu/Debian (Unstable)

The project builds [daily unstable snapshots](https://code.launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+recipe/nicotine+-daily) in a separate [unstable PPA](https://code.launchpad.net/~nicotine-team/+archive/ubuntu/unstable). To use it, run the following:

```sh
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nicotine-team/unstable
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 6CEB6050A30E5769
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nicotine
```

If you prefer to install a .deb package directly, you can download one [here](http://ppa.launchpad.net/nicotine-team/unstable/ubuntu/pool/main/n/nicotine/). Unlike the repository installation method, Nicotine+ will not update automatically; you need to download a .deb package each time a new release is available.

### Arch Linux/Manjaro/Parabola (Stable)

Nicotine+ is available in the community repository of Arch Linux, Manjaro and Parabola. To install, run the following:

```sh
sudo pacman -S nicotine+
```

### Void Linux (Stable)

To install Nicotine+ on Void Linux, run the following:

```sh
sudo xbps-install -S nicotine+
```

### Fedora (Stable)

To install Nicotine+ on Fedora, run the following:

```sh
sudo dnf install nicotine+
```

### Slackware (Stable)

Nicotine+ is available in the community repository of SlackBuild.org. To install, download the [Nicotine+ SlackBuild](https://slackbuilds.org/repository/14.2/network/nicotine%2B/) and run the following:

```sh
./nicotine+.SlackBuild
```

### Other Distributions

If Nicotine+ has not been packaged for your distribution/operating system yet, there are other recommended ways of installing Nicotine+.

#### pip (Stable)

Nicotine+ can be installed using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/). Ensure the [runtime dependencies](doc/DEPENDENCIES.md) are installed, and run the following:

```sh
pip3 install nicotine-plus
```

Keep in mind that Nicotine+ will not update automatically. When a new release is available, run the following:

```sh
pip3 install nicotine-plus --upgrade
```

#### Flatpak (Stable)

If your distribution supports Flatpak, you can install Nicotine+ from Flathub.

- [Download Nicotine+ on Flathub](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.nicotine_plus.Nicotine)

#### Flatpak (Unstable)

Unstable Flatpak packages are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [Download Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/flatpak-package.zip)

## Windows

### Stable

Stable Windows installers for Nicotine+ are available for download. Installing Nicotine+ requires administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-installer.zip.sha256)]
- [32-bit Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-installer.zip.sha256)]

Portable packages are also available. They can be run from your home directory, and do not require installation or administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Portable Package](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-package.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-x86_64-package.zip.sha256)]
- [32-bit Portable Package](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-package.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/windows-i686-package.zip.sha256)]

### Unstable

Unstable Windows packages are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [64-bit Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-x86_64-installer.zip)
- [32-bit Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-i686-installer.zip)

Portable packages are also available. They can be run from your home directory, and do not require installation or administrator privileges.

- [64-bit Portable Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-x86_64-package.zip)
- [32-bit Portable Package](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/windows-i686-package.zip)

### Chocolatey (Stable)

Nicotine+ can be installed using [Chocolatey](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/nicotine-plus). Run the following:

```sh
choco install nicotine-plus
```

## macOS

### Stable (Catalina/10.15 and newer)

A stable macOS installer for Nicotine+ is available on macOS version 10.15 (Catalina) and newer.

- [Download Installer](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/macos-installer.zip)  [[SHA256](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/releases/latest/download/macos-installer.zip.sha256)]

### Stable (Mojave/10.14)

On macOS version 10.14 (Mojave), the recommended approach is to install Nicotine+ using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).

Once Homebrew is set up, run the following:

```sh
brew install nicotine-plus
```

### Unstable (Catalina/10.15 or newer)

Unstable macOS installers are generated after every commit to the master branch, and should only be used for testing.

- [Download Installer](https://nightly.link/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/workflows/packaging/master/macos-installer.zip)

## Building from git (Unstable)

For more experienced users and developers who want to test the latest and greatest changes in Nicotine+, building from git is described in [RUNFROMGIT.md](doc/RUNFROMGIT.md). Also read the next section about getting involved.

# Getting Involved

If you would like to contribute to Nicotine+, you have a couple of options to get started:

* If you find a problem or have a feature request you can
  * discuss your findings in the [#nicotine+ IRC channel](https://web.libera.chat/?channel=#nicotine+) on [Libera.Chat](https://libera.chat/),
  * [create a new issue](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/issues) on GitHub, 
  * or post to the project [mailing list](mailto:nicotine-team@lists.launchpad.net).
* If you would like to translate Nicotine+ into another language, see [TRANSLATIONS.md](doc/TRANSLATIONS.md).
* If you would like to package Nicotine+ for a distribution or operating system, see [DEPENDENCIES.md](doc/DEPENDENCIES.md) for a list of dependencies.
* Code contributors, developers and maintainers should read [DEVELOPING.md](doc/DEVELOPING.md) for important information about various aspects of Nicotine+ development.
* For a list of contributors to Nicotine+ and its predecessors, see [AUTHORS.md](AUTHORS.md).
* For unofficial documentation of the Soulseek protocol, see [SLSKPROTOCOL.md](doc/SLSKPROTOCOL.md).
* For a current list of things to do, see the [issue tracker](https://github.com/nicotine-plus/nicotine-plus/issues).

# Where did the name Nicotine come from?

> I was in a geeky mood and was browsing [http://www.bash.org](http://www.bash.org)'s QDB.  
I stumbled across this quote:  
>> **\<etc>** so tempting to release a product called 'nicotine' and wait for the patches.  
>> **\<etc>** then i would have a reason to only apply one patch a day. otherwise, i'm going against medical advise.  
>
> So I thought what the hell and bluntly stole etc's idea.  

<p align="right">Hyriand, <i>founder of the Nicotine project</i>, 2003</p>

# Legal and Privacy

- By using Nicotine+, you agree to abide by the Soulseek [rules](https://www.slsknet.org/news/node/681) and [terms of service](https://www.slsknet.org/news/node/682), as long as you are using the official Soulseek server.
- While Nicotine+ does not collect any user data, the official Soulseek server or a user-configured third-party server may potentially do so.

# License

Nicotine+ is released under the terms of the [GNU Public License v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html) or later.
